README.md, before:

# Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program
This repository contain all the activities and projects that I will accomplish while I am on learning journey.
I will commit all the code realted to practice project as well as course project. This repository will make clear about the effort you need to accomplish while pursuing this Nano Degree course.


## Content 

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Foundation Course](#foundation-course)
- [List of projects you will develop](#list-of-projects)
- [What you will be learned?](#what-you-will-be-learned)
- [View Certificate](#view-certificate)


## Overview
After completing this degree, you will have enough knowledge to start implementing npm, node, react and other projects in your work. I am always learning and I take many online courses myself! So I know how difficult it was to take time out of your schedule and dedicate the many hours of hard work it took to complete this course. I know that there were some very difficult concepts to learn, some of the quizzes and coding exercises were tough, and the projects were challenging. 

## Foundation Course
Visit this [link](https://github.com/asharn/4-months-software-engineer-for-shell#4-months-software-engineer-for-shell-scholarship-nanodegree-program) to see the activities and process to get enrollement to this program.


## List of projects
Content to view all the projects are listed below:
  1. [**Image processing API**](https://github.com/asharn/Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program/tree/main/image-processing-api#readme)
  2. [**Employee Polls Web App**](https://github.com/asharn/Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program/tree/main/employee-polls-web-app#readme)
  3. [**Exploring Near-Earth Objects**](https://github.com/asharn/Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program/tree/main/near-earth-objects#readme)
  4. [**Deploy An Article CMS to Azure**](https://github.com/asharn/Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program/blob/main/deploy-an-article-cms-to-azure#readme)
  5. [**Deploying the Neighborly App with Azure Functions**](https://github.com/asharn/Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program/tree/main/deploying-the-neighborly-app-with-azure-functions#readme)
  6. [**Sixth Project**]()
  7. [**Seventh Project**]()


## What you will be learned?
This program contains 6 major projects with a deep concept of node for app development. This course cover topic as:

  1. Welcome to the Software Engineer Nanodegree Program
    In the first course, you learned about developing a node app using Node, jasmine, and configuration middleware server as express, etc.
    <strong>
      1. An Introduction to Nanodegree Program
      2. Getting Help
    </strong>

  2. Backend Development with Node.js
    In the second course, you learned about developing a node app using Node, jasmine, and configuration middleware server as express, etc.
    <strong>
      1. Foundations of backend Development
      2. Getting started with Node.js
      3. Developing with Typescript
      4. Unit Testing with Jasmine
      5. Building a server
      6. Project: Image Processing Api
    </strong>

  3. React & Redux
    In the third course, you learned about react and redux in dept.
    <strong>
      1. Introduction to the course
      2. Managing State
      3. UI Plus Redux
      4. Redux Middleware
      5. Redux with React
      6. Asynchronous Redux
      7. React-Redux Binding
      8. Testing with Jest
      9. Project: Employee Polls Web App Project
    </strong>

  4. Advanced Python Techniques
   In this forth course, you learned about the advanced python.
    <strong>
      1. Introduction to Advanced Python Techniques
      2. Representing Data
      3. Functions and Functional Programming
      4. Object Oriented Programming
      5. File I/O
      6. Project: Exploring Near-Earth Objects
    </strong>

  5. Azure Applications
   In this fifth course, you learned about the Azure applications.
    <strong>
      1. Getting Started - Azure Setup
      2. Introduction to Microsoft Azure Development
      3. Azure Compute Services
      4. Azure Storage
      5. Security and Monitoring Basics
      6. Project: Deploy An Article CMS to Azure
    </strong>

  6. Azure Microservices
   In this sixth course, you learned about the Azure microservice, Kubernetes, cluster, nodes, Deployments and much more.
    <strong>
      1. Introduction to Azure Microservices
      2. Serverless Functions
      3. Enterprise Logic Apps and Event Grid
      4. Deployment
      5. Project: Deploying the Neighborly App with Azure Functions
    </strong>

## View Certificate
   <object data="certificate.pdf" type="application/pdf" width="700px" height="700px">
    <embed src="certificate.pdf">
        <p>Please download the PDF to view it: <a href="certificate.pdf">Download PDF</a>.</p>
    </embed>
   </object>

Commit message:

Readme file updated with last cource content.

README.md, after:

# Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program
This repository contain all the activities and projects that I will accomplish while I am on learning journey.
I will commit all the code realted to practice project as well as course project. This repository will make clear about the effort you need to accomplish while pursuing this Nano Degree course.


## Content 

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Foundation Course](#foundation-course)
- [List of projects you will develop](#list-of-projects)
- [What you will be learned?](#what-you-will-be-learned)
- [View Certificate](#view-certificate)


## Overview
After completing this degree, you will have enough knowledge to start implementing npm, node, react and other projects in your work. I am always learning and I take many online courses myself! So I know how difficult it was to take time out of your schedule and dedicate the many hours of hard work it took to complete this course. I know that there were some very difficult concepts to learn, some of the quizzes and coding exercises were tough, and the projects were challenging. 

## Foundation Course
Visit this [link](https://github.com/asharn/4-months-software-engineer-for-shell#4-months-software-engineer-for-shell-scholarship-nanodegree-program) to see the activities and process to get enrollement to this program.


## List of projects
Content to view all the projects are listed below:
  1. [**Image processing API**](https://github.com/asharn/Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program/tree/main/image-processing-api#readme)
  2. [**Employee Polls Web App**](https://github.com/asharn/Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program/tree/main/employee-polls-web-app#readme)
  3. [**Exploring Near-Earth Objects**](https://github.com/asharn/Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program/tree/main/near-earth-objects#readme)
  4. [**Deploy An Article CMS to Azure**](https://github.com/asharn/Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program/blob/main/deploy-an-article-cms-to-azure#readme)
  5. [**Deploying the Neighborly App with Azure Functions**](https://github.com/asharn/Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program/tree/main/deploying-the-neighborly-app-with-azure-functions#readme)
  6. [**TechTrends**](https://github.com/asharn/Shell-Software-Engineer-Train-to-Hire-Scholarship-Program/tree/main/tech-trends/techtrends#readme)


## What you will be learned?
This program contains 6 major projects with a deep concept of node for app development. This course cover topic as:

  1. Welcome to the Software Engineer Nanodegree Program
    In the first course, you learned about developing a node app using Node, jasmine, and configuration middleware server as express, etc.
    <strong>
      1. An Introduction to Nanodegree Program
      2. Getting Help
    </strong>

  2. Backend Development with Node.js
    In the second course, you learned about developing a node app using Node, jasmine, and configuration middleware server as express, etc.
    <strong>
      1. Foundations of backend Development
      2. Getting started with Node.js
      3. Developing with Typescript
      4. Unit Testing with Jasmine
      5. Building a server
      6. Project: Image Processing Api
    </strong>

  3. React & Redux
    In the third course, you learned about react and redux in dept.
    <strong>
      1. Introduction to the course
      2. Managing State
      3. UI Plus Redux
      4. Redux Middleware
      5. Redux with React
      6. Asynchronous Redux
      7. React-Redux Binding
      8. Testing with Jest
      9. Project: Employee Polls Web App Project
    </strong>

  4. Advanced Python Techniques
   In this forth course, you learned about the advanced python.
    <strong>
      1. Introduction to Advanced Python Techniques
      2. Representing Data
      3. Functions and Functional Programming
      4. Object Oriented Programming
      5. File I/O
      6. Project: Exploring Near-Earth Objects
    </strong>

  5. Azure Applications
   In this fifth course, you learned about the Azure applications.
    <strong>
      1. Getting Started - Azure Setup
      2. Introduction to Microsoft Azure Development
      3. Azure Compute Services
      4. Azure Storage
      5. Security and Monitoring Basics
      6. Project: Deploy An Article CMS to Azure
    </strong>

  6. Azure Microservices
   In this sixth course, you learned about the Azure microservice, Kubernetes, cluster, nodes, Deployments and much more.
    <strong>
      1. Introduction to Azure Microservices
      2. Serverless Functions
      3. Enterprise Logic Apps and Event Grid
      4. Deployment
      5. Project: Deploying the Neighborly App with Azure Functions
    </strong>
  6. Cloud Native Fundamentals
   In this seventh course, you learned about the cloud computing, PaaS, SaaS, IaaS, FaaS and much more.
    <strong>
      1. Introduction to Cloud Native Fundamentals
      2. Architecture Consideration for Cloud Native Applications
      3. Container Orchestration with Kubernetes
      4. Open Source PaaS
      5. CI/CD with Cloud Native Tools
      6. Project: TechTrends
    </strong>


## View Certificate
   <object data="certificate.pdf" type="application/pdf" width="700px" height="700px">
    <embed src="certificate.pdf">
        <p>Please download the PDF to view it: <a href="certificate.pdf">Download PDF</a>.</p>
    </embed>
   </object>
